---
layout: post
title: Instagram, LinkedIn and the elusive productivity
---
UPSC results came out this week. A friend told me that the girl who scored rank 1 doesn't believe in studying like an ascetic. Instead she went on to say on national television that she daily spends some time on social media platforms. Imagine being a parent with a civil services aspirant kid. You have inspired(trained) him/her to see the absolute glory of being an IAS. The values of hard work and self sacrifice which are aboslutely necessary to crack CSE have been inculcated in your ward. In this materialistic society where kids are not even satisfied with the latest iPhone, your kid is satisfied with his feature phone and a physical copy of The Hindu. But then this girl comes. Look at the balls on her to say in public that she used Instagram during her preparation. 
You and your kid sitting  at dinner and watching this interview. The feeling is 
similar to watching a movie with the family and suddenly in a stormy thunderous night, in between a dense forest, two rose buds bend towards each other and touch into a kiss. If it was upto you, you wouldn't have let them see this. Neither would you let them seethat vulguar botanical ravaging of the roses. 

But keeping the jokes aside, the obsession with social media today is perversive. Paraphrasing from the great master(bater) Osho, who used to joke that priest only thinks of sex and the prostitute of God. Similar are the obsessions with social media. There are those who are glued to their phones, continously updating and getting updated. Every thought and activity for them is 'postable'. Then there are the social media priests. Those who are not on social media. Most of such people I have met are either old, shy or have given up on any possibility of new things happening in their lives. You can say is a another type person obsessed with social media. They are as obsessed as those who take pictures of their food. These are the snobs, the productivity freaks. They often talk about how social media is a waste of time and the like to put their time in meaningful pursuits like family, career and learning. So, in a nutshell I am talking about your average LinkedIn power user.

I remember a time when LinkedIn used to be professional networking platform. Now it is swarmed with just 'content'. LinkedIn is dominated by three type of people recently, atleast in my feeds. First, the philanthropic HRs who are apprarently treating employees like family and out of empathy dishing out huge compensations. I myself have never met such kind. Apart from a sympathizing conversation I didn't get anything extra. 
Second are the FAANG engineers. They are excited to share their achievements online but the post goes on to become a how-to guide on cracking FAANG for fellow engineer. Even though there is a plethora of resources in tech available online for free, but everybody still gives some nuggets of gyan. This is not a slander of such posts. The social media community is rough. Achievement is bragging, sadness is pessimism, idealism is gaslighting, and Ankur Warikoo is funny. Everyone has too many opinions now. Being good is not enough today. You have to be perfect. So while achieving you have to be humble. In your idealism you have to be accomodating. The self censoring induced by social media gets induced in us.  
The third group is Product Managers. They also sometimes refer to themselves as Product @ Some Company. There are more posts on how-to become a PM than the number of PMs in the industry(same for data scientists). The world needs more product managers because your average engineer lacks the communication skills, and the higher view of things. But like Data Scientists, Product Managers are treated as wizzards who by a wave of their wands and the pinch of potion will get you the click through rate targets you have been fantasizing about.